# Seeing through Light and Darkness: Sensor-Physics Grounded Deblurring HDR NeRF from Single-Exposure Images and Events
This is an official PyTorch implementation of the See-NeRF. Click [here](https://icvteam.github.io/See-NeRF.html) to see the video and supplementary materials in our project website.

# Code
The code will be released soon.

# Data
## Synthetic Data
We provide the **Blender Data**, **Raw & Processed Data**, and the **Train & Test Data** of the synthetic scenes. Please down load them [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1kF0WjsWkyTM-fhHqKdUwJKtpxYXSlJWw?usp=sharing).

### Blender Data
We provide the original blender files to generate the original data for further processing. All data is generated by [Blender 3.4](https://www.blender.org/download/releases/3-4/). Note that unlike [E<sup>2</sup>NeRF](https://github.com/iCVTEAM/E2NeRF), we **didn't use** the [Camera Shakify Plugin](https://github.com/EatTheFuture/camera_shakify?tab=readme-ov-file) to simulate camera shake here. Instead, we directly quantized and randomly generated camera shake trajectories as in [EBAD-NeRF](https://github.com/iCVTEAM/EBAD-NeRF). Therefore, if you try to generate the raw data using these blender files, it might differ slightly from the data we provided. The blender data here is for facilitating the data generation of more in-depth follow-up research. If you simply want to use this dataset, you can directly use the **processed data** and the **data for training and testing**.

### Raw Data
The raw data include two folders ("train" and "test") in each scene's folder. There are 18 and 17 folder in the "train" and "test" folders seperately, representing 18 training views and 17 testing views. There are 18 **raw .exr images** in each "train" folder, synthesized during the camera shaking. We also provide the corresponding depth maps for further evaluation. Note that we also provide the ground truth **.json pose data** generated from blender for further evaluation, but we didn't use these data for training and testing in See-NeRF.

### Processed Data
The processed data include five folders ("train_event", "train_blurry", "train_sharp", "test_ldr", "test_hdr") in each scene's folder. If you want to generate the processed data from raw data by yourself, you can move the raw data scene folders in to the "./data/synthetic/" folder and use the command below under the environment of [v2e](https://github.com/SensorsINI/v2e).

```
python ./data/synthetic/1-raw2processed.py
```

**"train_event":** There are 18 folders in this folder, representing 18 training views, and each folder contains 18 **raw .npy** image for event simulation and the raw events "v2e-dvs-events.txt" generated from the modified "color_v2e" simulater. Since the event simulation include random noise events, if you try to generate the raw events using our code, it might differ slightly from the raw events we provided.

**"train_blurry" & "train_sharp":** There are 90 (18 training views * 5 different exposure times) synthsized LDR blurry images and LDR sharp images in the two folder, seperately. Note that our See-NeRF only use the blurry images with exposure time *t<sub>2</sub>* for training. The rest images are for the compared methods and further research.

**"test_ldr" & "test_hdr":** There are 85 (17 testing views * 5 different exposure times) LDR sharp images and 17 HDR sharp images in the two folders, seperately. Note that we only use the LDR sharp images with exposure time *t<sub>1</sub>* and *t<sub>3</sub>* for the novel view novel exposure test. The rest images are for the further research.

### Train & Test Data

The train & test data can be generated from the processed data using the command below with [COLMAP](https://colmap.github.io/install.html) installed and you can train and test our See-NeRF directly with the train & test data.
```
python ./data/synthetic/2-processed2train.py
```
The data include three folders ("images", "images_pose_etimation", "GT") and three files (events.pt, poses_bounds.npy, exp_times_test.npy) in each scene's folder.

**"images":** There are 18 single-exposure LDR images with exposure time *t<sub>2</sub>* for training in this folder.

**"images_pose_estimation":** There are 90 (18 training views * 5 in each view) LDR pre-deblurred images with EDI model and 17 GT sharp LDR test images in this folder for the pose estimation with [COLMAP](https://colmap.github.io/install.html). Although *2-processed2train.py* include calling COLMAP for pose estimation , we recommand use its GUI Automatic Reconstruction manually with **Shared Intrinsics option activated**.

**"GT":** This folder contains 17 testing views of both LDR and HDR GT images. Note that for HDR evaluation, we use the [Photomatix Pro 7.1.2 (64-bit)](https://www.hdrsoft.com/download/photomatix-pro.html) to tonemap the HDR GT images and save them into the "/GT/hdr/PhotomatixConversions01" folder, and for LDR novel exposure evaluation, we only use the LDR images with exposure time *t<sub>1</sub>* and *t<sub>3</sub>*.

**"events.pt":** The processed event data to facilitate See-NeRF training.

**"poses_bounds.npy":** The pose data generated from the COLMAP output.

**"exp_times_test.npy":** The specific values of *t<sub>0</sub>*, *t<sub>1</sub>*, *t<sub>2</sub>*, *t<sub>3</sub>*, *t<sub>4</sub>*.

## Citation

If you find this useful, please consider citing our papers and starring this repository:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{qi2023e2nerf,
  title={E2NeRF: Event enhanced neural radiance fields from blurry images},
  author={Qi, Yunshan and Zhu, Lin and Zhang, Yu and Li, Jia},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision},
  pages={13254--13264},
  year={2023}
}
@inproceedings{qi2024deblurring,
  title={Deblurring neural radiance fields with event-driven bundle adjustment},
  author={Qi, Yunshan and Zhu, Lin and Zhao, Yifan and Bao, Nan and Li, Jia},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 32nd ACM international conference on multimedia},
  pages={9262--9270},
  year={2024}
}
@article{qi2024e3nerf,
  title={E3NeRF: Efficient Event-Enhanced Neural Radiance Fields from Blurry Images},
  author={Qi, Yunshan and Li, Jia and Zhao, Yifan and Zhang, Yu and Zhu, Lin},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.01840},
  year={2024}
}
@article{qi2026seeing,
  title={Seeing through Light and Darkness: Sensor-Physics Grounded Deblurring HDR NeRF from Single-Exposure Images and Events},
  author={Qi, Yunshan and Zhu, Lin and Bao, Nan and Zhao, Yifan and Li, Jia},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.15475},
  year={2026}
}
```

## Acknowledgment

The overall framework are derived from [E<sup>3</sup>NeRF](https://github.com/iCVTEAM/E3NeRF) and the synthetic data generation is inspired by [HDR-NeRF](https://github.com/xhuangcv/hdr-nerf). We appreciate the effort of the contributors to these repositories.
